# Natural-Computing-Project
### Recreated the famous boids experiment, but using neural networks for each boid instead of global rules to achieve flocking behaviour. The neural networks evolve through an Evolutionary Algorithm where crossover techniques and mutations are performed to create a new generation of boids. The fitness is calculated based on the alignment and cohesion of each boid, which is used in selecting the parents of the next generation. 

## How to use the code
### Use 'pip install -r requirements.txt' to install the necessary packages to run the code. Navigate to 'main.py' where you can set the hyperparameters as pleased. The current configuration of hyperparameters in the file is the best configuration we have found, but feel free to try other configurations as well. The best values are also mentioned in the file description at the top. Make sure to set 'show_sim' equal to True of you want to see the pygame window with the simulations. An example of a succesful simulation can also be found in this repository as a GIF. The performances, states and parameters (weights and biases) of the population are automatically logged in the 'logs' folder, which already contains some examples. You can switch this off by setting the log hyperparameters to False. These logs can be used to visualise things such as performance over time, hyperparameter comparisons, agent behaviour to an input. The logs can also be used to replay the simulation in the 'replay_sim.py' file. To use the logs, copy the (relative) path of the desired file you want to analyze and paste it into the designated path variable of the visualisation file. Example and instructions are given there as well. 
